#
'Player guilds'

Player Guilds
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

   This document is designed to answer any questions regarding the creation
of player guilds on Duris. Under the new guild system players are 
responsible for the organization of their own guilds. Although guilds may 
worship whatever god (although they don't have to worship any) they choose,
the gods themselves will not be responsible or serve any function in the 
running of a guild. Guilds will also be allowed to build guildhall's in 
Duris, although again this is not required to form a guild.

How To Begin A Guild
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

a) The only requirement for forming a guild is to be at least 25th level or
above. The level requirement is simply to ensure that the person forming the
guild is familiar with Duris and how it's run.

b) What this allows -
   
Once this happens the guild will be created and the person forming the guild
will be flagged as a guild 'leader'. This will allow him/her to recruit
members into the guild and promote/demote them accordingly. This is done
completely without god interference and controlled by the code. Any new
members will be automaticly be flagged and titled as a member of the guild.
This also will create a guild bank account which is accessible by certain
members of the guild (see below).

  Once a guild has been started and approved by Duris, the guild members
of that guild must run their own activities. How many people there are of a
certain guild rank is entirely up to the players. The gods themselves will
have no interference with the running of the guild themselves. Any new 
members, once enrolled will automaticly be titled as a member of that guild.

Guild Structure
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Guilds have specific ranks within them which give their members to
ability do different things depending on their rank. How this works is as
follows :

Leader -  
  A leader can change the names of all the ranks (this allows an guild of
sorcerers to name the leader as "ArchMage" rather than "Leader". These 
titles must be realistic in a fantasy world, leaders are ultimately 
responcible to the gods so if a title of "Mickey Mouse" is given the leader
will be the one answering for it. A leader also has the ability to flag a 
player as an enemy to the guild.

Deputy -  
  A deputy (or higher) can delete, promote and demote members and also has
access to the guild's bank account.

Officer - 
  An officer (or higher) has the right to fine lower members (dealing out 
punishments etc).

Senior member - 
  A senior member (or higher) has the additional right to enroll new 
members.

Normal member
  A Normal member just has general abilities, access to any guildhalls that
might be available etc.

Enemy - 
  The guild leader has the ability to flag a player outside the guild as a
guild enemy as well. This will cause the guild npc's (if any) to attack the
player on sight.

Challenging Positions 
  Challenging positions is a togglable option that must be decided on when
a guild is formed. By allowing this a lower ranked player in a guild has
the ability to challenge a higher one for his position. The one with the 
higher experience has a percentage chance of winning this contest and 
assuming the higher rank in the guild.  challenging someone however will 
cause loss of both exp to the loser and a loss of alignment for the 
challenger so be warned. Whether this is encouraged or a cause for 
punishment is up to the guild.


c) Who to talk to -
   
   In order to start a guild you must get your guild approved by the
appropriate god. At this time requests can be made to Rylar.

