
Duris Kingdom Code Proposal:

For ease of writing this I have divided it into several sections, each relating to a specific part of the Kingdom scenario.

Forming a Kingdom:

In order for a guild to undergo the transition from a guild to a kingdom, the following prerequisites must be met.

A set of 4 guildhalls, each consisting of not less than 10 rooms each, with the main guildhall being required to be not less than 15 rooms in size.  A guild must also have a membership of not less than 25 active members.  One these requirements have been filled, a guild may then apply for a kingdom.  The cost of transition from a guild to a kingdom is 100, 000 platinum coins payable at successful application.  Upon becoming a kingdom, a new command structure is made available to the leadership of the guild.  <ranks of leader, and deputy>  

A repositioning for the kingdom is allowed, with the surrounding 8 map squares becoming kingdom property.  

Note:  Only the main hall can be repositioned.

A kingdom may only acquire land directly associated with the castle hall.  Land acquisition is unable to be maintained from the existing guildhalls.  Another castle may be purchased once a kingdom has an army of 500 troops, no less than 500 map squares, a maximized justice contingent (6 troops, not level dependant), and at least 5 kingdom guardians (not level dependant), this secondary and subsequent castles cost 100, 000 plat. A 3rd and 4th castle requiring the least developed castle to conform to the previous mentioned requisites.


Land acquisition and uses.

Each map square will have different resources made available to the kingdom through their acquisition.  Land acquisition is accomplished by moving a character in the ranking positions within the guild over a desired map square and entering, 

Acquire 100 

Where 100 is the amount of kingdom troops left behind to oversee the acquisition.  Troops must remain unchallenged for a period of 1 mud month, and a maximum of 5 maps squares can be acquired during that time.  All land being acquired must be adjacent to already occupied land.

If land is occupied, or being acquired a rival kingdom can 'challenge' that land.  So that a prompt will be given, 

This land is already being acquired by <kingdom name> do you wish to challenge their right to it?  [Yes/No] [No].

NOTE:  A challenge to land being acquired is an aggressive act, and will enact the guild justice system described later. 

Each type of Map Square will have different properties and benefits these are listed below:

Mountain:	Resource - Ore	Defense +3	Movement -3
Grassland:	Resource - Food	Defense   0	Movement +1
Swamp:	Resource - Nil	Defense +1	Movement -1
Water:	Resource - Food	Defense +2	Movement -2
Hills:	Resource - Ore	Defense +1	Movement -1
Road:	Resource - Nil	Defense   0	Movement +3
Desert:	Resource - Nil	Defense +1	Movement -1
Forest:	Resource - Random	Defense +1	Movement -1
Underdark:	Resource - Random	Defense +2	Movement -2

Note:  Evil races suffer no penalties when other Evil races are involved, and when attacking a Good raced kingdom suffer -1 movement, and defenders receive a +1 defense bonus.  Conversely Good races suffer the above mentioned penalties.

Land whose resources are Food, are required to support kingdom troops, with each square of food producing land being able to support 10 troops +1 per number of food resource squares owned.  I.e.  10 squares of food land will support 100 troops + 10 for total number of squares owned.

Land, whose resources are Ore produce wealth in the form of platinum coins, deposited directly into the kingdom account, once a month.  The amount of money an Ore producing land square produces is 10 platinum per square +1 per number of Ore resource squares owned.  I.e.  10 squares of ore land will produce 100 platinum +10 each month.

Note:  For evil players, underworld land acquisition will offer a civility to their domain, restricting the usual dangers from encroaching on patrolled and conquered land.

Mob purchasing:

Aside from the Golem mobs a range of specific kingdom related mobs are available for purchase.  There will be two types of purchasable mobs, virtual and real.

A virtual mob will be used in the acquisition of land and in the defense/attacking of another kingdom.  A virtual mob can only be attacked by another virtual mob of a rival kingdom.  The costs and type of virtual mobs available for purchase are listed below:

Virtual Mob Type		Experience		Weapons		Armor
	Raw/Seasoned/Veteran		Basic/Average/Good	Basic/Average/Well

Foot Soldier:		1/5/10			1/5/10			1/5/10
Archer:		2/10/20			2/10/20			2/10/20
Calvary:		4/20/40			4/20/40			4/20/40
Scout:		5/25/50			5/25/50			5/25/50
Assassin:		7/35/70			7/35/70			7/35/70
Battle Cleric:		8/40/80			8/40/80			8/40/80 
Battle Mage:		10/50/100			10/50/100			10/50/100

Experience is the level range of each troop.  The specific level of each troop will be determined at time of purchase, and with be randomly selected from within the level range for each band of experience.  The level bands are as follows: Raw: levels 20-30, Seasoned: levels 30-40, Veteran: levels 40-50.

Weapons determine how well armed a type of troop is.  The type of weapon is generic, such that each type of troop will have the same weapon.  The weapon dice are as follows: Basic: 1d6, Average: 2d6, Good: 3d6.

Armor is a range of AC for each troop.  The specific AC of each troop will be determined at time of purchase, and will be randomly selected from within the AC range for each level of armor purchased.  The AC levels are as follows: Basic: 0 to -20, Average:  -20 to -40, Well:  -40 to -60.

Note:  When purchasing a troop, of any kind, there will be a 1% chance that the troop is elite.  An elite troop falls within a level range of 50-60, is excellently armed (4d6) and extremely well armored (-60 to -100 AC).

Foot Soldier: A foot soldier will make up the bulk of any army, being the most cheaply purchased type of defense.  A foot soldier will gain a +2 melee and a +1 to attacking.

Archer:  An archer typically will try and attack from a range.  They are not physically strong and suffer a -1 to their melee skills, though as they can often stand back and fight, they do gain a +2 to their attack.

Calvary:  Calvary is a mounted knight that charges into battle.  As their primary attack is reliant not on their own constitution but that of a horse they suffer an initial -2 to melee but gain a +3 to their attack.  After the initial attack it is assumed that their horse is either dead, or they have dismounted to engage in melee.  After the initial attack they gain a +2 melee, and a +1 attack.

Scout:  A scout though a virtual mob is not included within the actual armies of a kingdom.  Their primary role is to alert a kingdom of an approaching army.  Once positioned a scout may not be moved, and dependant upon the level of the scout, it will have a range of 'sight', through which they can alert of any rival kingdom's virtual troops, be it an attack, or merely in acquiring land.  A scout must be positioned upon an occupied square of land, and once placed cannot be moved.  Their sight is dependant upon the experience of the mob, such that: Raw: 5 squares, Seasoned: 10 squares, Veteran: 20 squares, Elite: 30 squares. 

Any virtual mob entering into the range of sight will be reported over the kingdoms GCC, with a rough direction and description of the force.  E.g. A small force approaches from the west.  Any enemy force that is sighted by a scout will suffer a -1 attack penalty on all attacks, with the defending kingdom receiving a further +1defense bonus.

Assassin:  An assassin mobs primary function is to dispose of enemy scouts.  An assassin mob will attack an enemy scout if placed within the sight of a scout.  Though a scout is not seen as a virtual mob, or as a depiction upon the map, it is up to the opposing kingdom to guess where to deploy their assassin.  If an assassin is successfully deployed within and a scout is within its sight, it will automatically move to and engage the virtual mob.  A comparison of levels will be made to determine whether the assassin mob has gained the surprise needed to 'backstab' the scout, at which time a combat will ensue.  If the scout is successfully slain, a report will be made on the GCC of the Kingdom that deployed it.  E.g. I successfully slew the enemy scout.  Likewise with a slain scout a period of 1 Mud month will pass before its absence is noted.  Upon successfully slaying an enemy scout the attacking kingdom gains a +1attack, and the defending kingdom suffers a -1 defense.

If an assassin is not deployed within the correct sight range, then after a period of 1 Mud month, he will report back as unsuccessful.  Further more if the assassin was unable to find the scout, placed outside the sight range of the assassin, yet within the scouts sight, then a +1defense bonus will be granted to the defending guild for a period of 1 month with the attacking guild suffering a -1 attacking bonus.

Battle Cleric: A battle cleric is holy man dedicated to the pursuit of battle.  Though his primary role in battles is that of healing, he will initially begin with offensive spells.  A ratio of clerics will enable an army to gain specific bonuses, which are immediate, and last while the clerics still live.  At a ratio of 1-cleric/5 troops a +4 attack bonus is granted, 1/10 +4, 1/20 +3, 1/30 +2, 1/50 +1.  This ratio is calculated at the close of each round with appropriate adjustments to bonuses being made.  The cleric gains a +1 in melee for reluctance of being attacked for superstitious reasons, and gains a +1 to attack for the same reasons.  A cleric is able to fully heal 1 troop per combat round, with the troop being randomly selected.  Higher level clerics being able to fully heal more than 1 troop/round.  Raw:  1 troop/round, Seasoned: 2 troops/round, Veteran: 3 troops/round, Elite: 4 troops/round.

Battle Mage: A battle mage will only cast area spells during combat, and will cast its highest-level area spells first.  Though the most devastating troop on the battlefield they are also the weakest, suffering a -3 to melee and a -3 to attack.  Once a battle mages spells are exhausted they will attempt to engage in melee, making them a costly commodity on the battlefield.  A battle mages arsenal of spells is dictated by the level of the mage and will not renew once cast.

Note:  Troops are specifically localized to their castles and can not be transferred to aid in defense of other castles, though they may attack another Kingdom, if they are on the same continent.

Real mobs.

The real mobs are mobs purchasable by each kingdom for the sole purpose of adding security to their masters.  These mobs are very costly, and once killed will only repop at a reboot/crash.  They are split into 2 main categories, each serving a specific role.

Kingdom Justice Mobs are mobs that act in the same way as per hometown justice mobs.  They are purchased based on level and can not be upgraded once purchased.  A total of 6 Kingdom Justice mobs may be purchased up to a maximum level of 55.  They will leave from the Kingdom's hall and will take the shortest route to an ostracized trespasser, and begin to attack/track them.  Though they will not bind a person, they will track them to the boundaries of the kingdom, returning to their load room when the ostracized person is dead or has left kingdom controlled land.  

Note:  Once killed these mobs will not repop until a reboot/crash.

Kingdom Guardians are mobs that are purchasable based on level of the mob required.  As with the justice mobs once killed they will not repop until a reboot/crash.  They will act as guard mobs protecting and assisting Kingdom members being attacked on Kingdom controlled land.  The mobs only wander controlled land, and start from outside the Kingdom's hall.  These mobs will also attack/track ostracized persons on Kingdom land, though they will not automatically track them on the detection of a trespass.  The number of these mobs allowed is limited to 1/8 map squares owned, and as with justice mobs cannot be upgraded once purchased and are limited to level 55.

Real mob costing is calculated based on the level of the mob, and have 3 allowable classes: Mage, Cleric and Warrior.   Warrior:  100p/level, Cleric: 150p/level, Mage: 200p/level.

Note:  These mobs are automatically aggressive to an opposite race in the race wars.  Justice mobs will also enact themselves upon trespass by an opposing race, regardless of ostracism.

A virtual mob will have a generic description, and will be visible to players, excepting Scout and Assassin mobs, though not attackable by them.  A typical grouping of troops marching to combat would appear as follows:

[34] A nervous foot soldier stands here, fingering his weapon and adjusting his armor.
[12] A seasoned archer stands here, testing his bowstring against his comfortable armor.
[20] A scared cavalry rider stands here, well armed and resplendent in his armor.
[2] An elite battle mage stands here, inspecting his dagger hidden within fine robes.
[8] A scared battle cleric stands here, well armed and resplendent in his armor.

Though a player cannot attack them, it will allow the defending Kingdom the opportunity to purchase more troops.  Purchasing of troops will be done by leadership ranks, and will take 1 mud week to arrive.  The command line will be as follows:

Purchase <troop name> <experience level [raw, seasoned, veteran]> <weapon level [basic, average, well] <armor level [basic, average, well] <number of troops>

E.g. Purchase archer raw average well 10.  This would purchase 10 archers with raw experience that have average weapons and are well armored.

The purchased troops can be upgraded, and can be done so at the original cost of the required troop.  The reason for this is that land restrictions will limit the number of troops a kingdom can hold, based on its ability to support its army.  A command line to do this will be as follows:

Upgrade <troop name> <experience level> <weapon level> <armor level> <number of troops> <experience level> <weapon level> <armor level>

E.g. Upgrade archer raw average well 10 veteran well well.  This would upgrade 10 archers of raw level, average weapons, and well armor to 10 veteran, well-armed and well-armored archers.

Note:  Once a virtual mob has been killed it is will not repop and must be repurchased.  Making war an expensive prospect and one which should be considered thoroughly.


Ostracism and Guild Justice

Ostracism for a Kingdom is a lot more undesirable than that of guild ostracism.  There are two ways by which one might become ostracized by a Kingdom, singularly or as a result of a multiple ostracism.

A singular ostracism will occur when a leader ostracizes a specific person for whatever reason.  The said person will then be subject to the Kingdom justice invoking its wrath when stepping onto kingdom land.  The kingdom guardian mobs will attack them on sight, as well as the kingdom golems.  To become unostracised is solely at the desecration of the Kingdom leadership.

Ostracize <name>
Unostracise <name>

Multiple ostracism can occur two ways.  Firstly through a declaration of war upon another kingdom, all members of the target kingdom will become ostracized and will invoke the Kingdom Justice when on Kingdom land, as well as being attacked by Kingdom Guardians and Kingdom Golems.  The second way for a multiple ostracism to occur is through challenging the acquisition of land.  A challenge, successful or not, will automatically be seen as an aggressive act and will automatically ostracize the attacking Kingdom.  Though the attacking kingdom will become ostracized, the defending Kingdom will remain unostracized until such time as the aggressor declares war.

Declare War <Kingdom name>
A prompt will follow:
Are you sure you wish to declare War upon <kingdom name> [Yes/No] [No].
A prompt will follow:
You have declared War upon <kingdom name>; all their members are now ostracized on Kingdom controlled lands.

Note:  Multiple ostracism includes ALL Kingdom members and can only be achieved through a declaration of war or through challenging land acquisition.  A declaration of peace will remove multiple ostracism though it is important to make sure both sides declare peace.

Declare Peace <Kingdom name>
A prompt will follow:
You have declared peace with <kingdom name> they are no longer ostracized.

Guild Justice will only operate if guild justice mobs have been purchased.  If the said mobs have been purchased then they will enforce the ostracism list automatically and aggressively to the boundaries of their Kingdom controlled land.  They will also automatically and aggressively attack opposite sides of the race war, assisting and rescuing kingdom members if they are engaged.  They will enforce the Kingdoms domain while they still live, regenerating at a normal rate and/or healing depending on type of mobs purchased.  They will each act individually and as such are not redundant upon the death of a lead mob.


Kingdom War

Kingdom war covers the various aspects of the combat between virtual troops.  This section will discuss both the mechanics of the virtual combat and the various reasons and the need for it.

Troop movement: Troop movement is unrestricted and without consequence in most instances.  They suffer no penalties when travelling across unoccupied land, Kingdom land, and allied land.  Troop movement is restricted to 10 map squares a week with appropriate movement bonuses for terrain being added to that.  E.g. 10 map squares +3 across road.

If troop movement across land falls within the sight range of a scout, the said scout will report the movement to its Kingdom.  Though this movement is not considered aggressive, appropriate defense and attack bonuses are received.

Troop movement occurs when attacking a rival Kingdom or when acquiring land.  This movement is automatic and requires no specific ground patterns to be laid out.  A contingent of virtual troops will take the shortest route to its destination, regardless of land ownership.  

Note: It is assumed that the bulk of idle troops are housed within the castle until such time as they are needed to acquire land or attack a rival Kingdom.

Virtual Troop Combat

There a three virtual troop combat scenarios.  These are each unique and serve a specific purpose within the Kingdom environment.

Combat through Land Challenge: This will occur when land is challenged, it is considered an aggressive act and suffers the penalties described above.  When trying to acquire a map square an amount of troops is specified to guard the land through the occupation period.  If this land is already being acquired a challenge may be made.  Challenging a map square will only use the number of troops originally specified for the occupation of the land.  If a challenge is successful then the remaining troops will begin to occupy the land.  If unsuccessful then the defender continues to acquire the land with the remaining troops.

Combat with Assassins and Scouts: This will occur when an assassin is successfully deployed, with a scout in its sight.  If a scout is within an assassins sight, yet the assassin is beyond the sight of a scout, the assassin will make a successful backstab to initiate combat.  If the assassin is unsuccessfully deployed, a scout is not found within its range, yet the assassin is within the sight range of the scout, then no combat will be entered into, though the assassins presence will be noted and bonuses assigned accordingly.  In the case of an assassin and scout both being within each others sight range, an initiative roll will occur, determining whether or not the assassin begins combat with a backstab.  Though this combat is not considered as an aggressive act, due mainly to the secretive nature of the mobs, notations of their movements will be reported back to the respective kingdoms.

Placing an assassin or a scout will occur with a leadership rank moving over the desired map square and entering:

Deploy <assassin or scout>

At this stage the appropriate mob will leave from the Kingdom hall, and make its way to the designated map square.

Note: One must actually own the desired mobs for this command to work.

Siege Combat: This will occur when trying to takeover an enemy Kingdom.  As Kingdoms are ultimately a very expensive part of the game, laying siege to an enemy hall is the first step needed to be accomplished in the takeover of a rival kingdom.  Siege Combat consists of sending a force to attack a rival kingdom at its castle.  The troops sent would leave the aggressor's hall and make their way, along the most direct path, to the rival Kingdom.  If this movement falls within the sight range of a scout, then appropriate bonuses are applied.  Upon reaching the rival hall the said force will engage the enemy.  If victorious the troops will then make their way back to their castle.  If the defending kingdom manages to repel the aggressor then their troops will remain at the castle, less the number killed.  ALL forces not in use will enter into the combat, though if the enemy troop movement is detected; the defending kingdom may opt to lay siege to the aggressor's castle.  To lay siege to another kingdom, one must have declared war upon the said kingdom.

Siege <kingdom name> <# of troops>
You are about to lay siege to <kingdom name> are you sure you wish to do this? [Yes/No] [No].
You send for your troops to further the glory of the Kingdom.

Note: When specifying the number of troops sent to lay siege, they will be taken in the following manor: 1 troop from each type of virtual mobs, before renewing the process.  This will not pay attention to levels of the mobs, but just the bands they fall within.  If a mob in unavailable they will skip it and return to the cycle until the quota of mobs is complete.

Once a Kingdom has successfully lain siege to a rival one may opt to take the castle.  To take the castle one must proceed the throne room of the castle, and entering in the following:

Conquer <kingdom name>
You begin the conquest of <kingdom name>.

To conquer the kingdom one must remain unchallenged for a period of 1 Mud week, at which stage the Kingdom and all its lands are appropriated.  This kingdom can then operate as a separate entity and acquire lands accordingly.

Note: If a Kingdom hall has its justice and golems killed it can be 'raided' though unless a siege has been successful then any attempt to appropriate the castle and its lands will not work.  Only 1 person may enter the Conquer command at a time, and that person must remain within the throne room for the entirety of the Mud week for the conquest to be successful.  Leaving the room will require the process to begin anew, as with a death of the conqueror.  When the Conquer command is entered the aggressor will be noted on the GCC of the defending kingdom.

E.g. Cy tells your guild 'I now claim these lands as my own, all bow down to me!'

