"ROLEPLAYING GUIDE"
 
"GODS"

   Many players choose to follow one god or another in order to further
develope their character, and to add to their role playing options.  
Generally any one playing a cleric or a druid should worship some god.  
Most worship a god of their race, but it is not unheard of to worship a god
of a race different than ones own.  To assist you in choosing a god to 
worship, a list of the pantheons of each race is available, categorized
by alignment. To see a list use the following syntax:
 
info <race name>                    example: info gnome 

God lists are avaliable for the following races: HUMAN AND BARBARIAN,
ELVEN, DWARVEN, DROW, OGRE, ILLITHID, GNOME, HALFLING, and DEURGAR

You can also see information on specific gods.  Currently information
is only availiable on gods presently active in the mud, however in 
the future a biography of each god, active or otherwise will be accessible.
To see information on a specific god, use this syntax:

info <god name>                     example: info Cython

---------------------------------------------------------------------

ABOUT GOD BIOS

God bios contain an assortment of information on a specific god, this
will briefly explain each category.

-ALTERNATE NAME
  This would be another other common "nickname" this god might go by or
  be refered to as, often it will describe the sphere they most influence.

-PLANE
  All gods live in godly realms, of which there are many levels.  Various
  alignments tend to settle within the area of the planes that best suits
  that god.  In the furture there will be special info an each plane.

-STATUS
  There are three statues a god can have: Active, Dormant or Dead.  An 
  Active god is considered to be a current member of the Duris godly
  staff.  A Dormant god is a god that is not currently being used by
  the Duris staff for role play, and a Dead god, is a god that has
  been killed in one manner or another durning the Time of Troubles.
  (Bane is an example of a dead god)

-SEX
  Fairly self-explanatory, however please note that elven gods are 
  technically all androgynous, and simply choose to appear as one
  gender or another.

-PORTFOLIO
  These are the spheres of influence that this god controls.

-SYMBOL
  The symbol used, mostly by followers, to identify things pertaining
  to the god associated with it.

-ALIGNMENT
  Denotes the moral and ethical leanings of a god.  Gods may fall under 
  the following alignments: Lawful Good, Chaotic Good, Neutral Good,
  Lawful Evil, Chaotic Evil, Neutral Evil, Lawful Neutral, Chaotic Neutral,
  and Neutral.  More complete definitions of each alignment will be added
  in the future.

-WORSHIPERS
  This denotes the most *common* race to worship this god, however it is
  not the only race.  There is a great deal of cross over between gods
  and the races that follow them.  Do not feel married to worship only
  a god of your race, however do be prepared to explain, in role, why you
  picked a god outside of those of your race.  For instance, a gnome
  and halfling might be close friends, so one might follow the god of the
  other.

-DESCRIPTION
  This is a description of how this god most commonly appears to mortals.
  A god is able to take many forms, but normally there is one form they
  are partial to.
#~
